Note  : As a developer we provide services means business logic to the server ,so that the client(user) can get
        the request to the server.
        or 
        As developers, we implement business logic on the server to process requests sent by the client (user).		

Q1 :What is Server ?
Ans : Server is a main computer which fulfills the request of user/client or other computer.

Q2 : Advantages of Server ? 
Ans : 1 - Provide backup :- if data is deleted from local computer so it can ask to main server and can call his
                            deleted files. 
      2 - Security :- Server provide security. Which ever local computer are connected to the main Server it 
                       provides security in local computer. 
      3 - Storage : Server has more memory capacity than local computer. Server opens for 24 hours.
	  
Q3 : Types of Server?
Ans : 1 - File Server : it uses ftp protocol to bring file from server.
          protocol - A protocol is like a set of rules that helps two devices to communicate to each other 
		             means how local computer is communicating to server/main computer.
	  2 - Application Server: it uses HTTP/HTTPS protocol	 			 
		  Application Server is a program that provides the environment where your applications(websites ) run.
          It handles things like business logic, manages data, and processes requests from users.
      
	  3 - Mail Server : it uses smpt to send and receive mail.
	  
      4 - Web server : it also uses HTTP/HTTPS protocol 
          Suppose we request something from the server it uses http or https protocol.
          
		  HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol):  is used for sending and receiving web content. It’s unencrypted.
          
		  HTTPS (HTTP Secure) : is the secure version of HTTP. It encrypts the data to protect it during 
		  transmission.
		  
		  How It Works:

		When you enter a URL like youtube.com in your browser, the request typically starts with HTTP or HTTPS, 
		depending on whether the site supports encryption.

		If the site supports HTTPS, your browser will initiate a secure connection. The request to the server
		and the response from the server are both encrypted using HTTPS.

		If the site only supports HTTP, the request and response are not encrypted.
		
		When you type youtube.com in your browser, the browser checks if the website supports HTTPS. If it does,
		it will use HTTPS to securely request and receive the website content. If not, it will use HTTP.
		
		Apache tomcat is a type of web server whic we will use.It is a dynamic web server.
		
		Q : What is apache tomcat server ?
        Ans : Apache tomcat is a web server that allows java application to run on the web. If user request a 
              website so tomcat recieves the request runs the java code and sends back the web page for you 
              that you were requesting. so tomcat is just like a middleman. Apache tomcat host the website
              (because it runs java based web application).			  
		
	  5 - Database server : When an application(web page) or user needs information, the database server 
	                         retrieves it quickly.
          Database server uses JDBC protocol 
          JDBC (Java Database Connectivity): A protocol for Java applications to interact with databases.

Q4 : Disadvantage of server ?
Ans : 1 : if server fails(main computer fails) all other local computer will not connect to that website.
      2 : Server is more expensive(more ram , more storage)


Q5 : What is protocol ? 
Ans : Protocol is a set of rules which are used in digital communication to connect network devices and exchange 
      information between them. 	  
	  
	  
	  System 1 <----------------------------> System 2
	                       ↓
					Protocol(set of rules)	   
			Through protocol we can achieve connection

    Q : types of protocol ? 
    Ans : 1 - TCP/IP
          2 - HTTP(will use this more)
          3 - SMTP

        HTTP protocol - so http protocol takes user details what they type suppose he is searching for a page 
		                gfg.com so that page is given back to user with the help of http protocol.
                        		
         		        or 
						
						The HTTP protocol works when a user types a URL, like 'gfg.com,' and presses Enter. 
						The browser sends an HTTP request to the server hosting the page (e.g., Apache Tomcat). 
						The server processes the request and sends back the webpage to the user's browser using 
						HTTP.

Q6 : What is Domain name system ? 
Ans : A domain name is a user-friendly address for websites, like www.example.com, that replaces 
	  hard-to-remember IP addresses (e.g., 192.168.1.1). The Domain Name System (DNS) converts these domain names
	  into IP addresses so that users can easily access websites by typing the name instead of the numbers.
	  
	  If domain name does not work than write the ip address and you can get your website, but remembering domain
      is more easy than remebering IP address.	  
	  
      	             
Q7 : What is cookies?
Ans : If a website is a cookie enabled by the user then that website drop one cookie on your computer. and 
      whatever we search on that website now it will go to that website with the help of cookie and then again
      you visit that website so it will recommend your earlier search result or some better search result with 
	  the help of the cookie which is enabled in your computer when you gave permission. 

      So cookies are like little notes that website put on your computer. they help the website remember  whom
      you are what you like so it give you better experience the next time you visit.
	  
	  for ex : they might keep you logged in or remember items in your shopping cart.
	  
	  or 
	  
	  chat gpt explanation  : 
	  
	  Cookies are small files that websites store on your computer if you give permission. They help websites 
	  remember information about you, such as your preferences or previous searches. When you revisit the site, 
	  cookies allow the website to offer a more personalized experience, like recommending similar content, 
	  keeping you logged in, or remembering items in your shopping cart.